Time to throw shit at the wall and see what sticks

## Core
What is the world I'm writing built on. What core values lie at its centre.
- Balance, Justice, Cooperation, Growth, that sort of thing comes naturally. 
- The world as we know it is built on power and influence. This will of course be present, but why not deviate?
Let's build this world on the core principle of **SIZE**; the manifestation of yourself in (mainly) physical form.

Alt idea: a completely submerged 'old forgotten world' (though that is a slightly overused trope), a current mountaintop era, and a growing 'future' of skybound civilization, led by a completely different type of people.
## World / Environment
- I'm going to write off gods, but not deities. 
	- Perhaps something similar to the Spren I would consider.
- We're still sticking to having humans and humanoids being the dominant species on an earth-like planet
## Inhabitants
- Size of person determines influence, the most powerful beings ascend to ginormous status
	- Undying legends might reside underground in a story for the main character to discover?
- Emotion is the core that drives the / a society
## Story dump
- Perhaps the world has reached a climax of ultimate peace, but our story starts right before the decline, and is about sailing down the maintain. About getting to realize that how much you might try, you are reliant on your environment. 
	- Perhaps a massive accident happens, or a culture shock, or a new force of a different core value than that of the ruling ideology.
