---
tags: TODO
---
> TODO: Revise this into proper notes on [[Califhen]].
## Era of Not
*Time Immemoriam to The Formation*

One discussion that plagues many a philosopher is what was before it all. What possible deities could have existed before the current one. What does it mean to exist, and how does one reach a stage of existence. There are many questions we cannot get answers to, mostly explained by the fact that time or space was inhibited by nothing but atoms consisting out of precise ideas. 

The first parts of existence recalled by those we now call Greater Deities are those of emotion and thought. The Greater Deities were most likely formed by the colliding of these emotions and thoughts, and once activity started growing, the Greater Deities started trading and sharing these emotions and thoughts, even combining them to create new entities like themselves. It is a period of experimentation and invention, an unfathomable period of creation, that either took an eternity, or a split second, depending on how you wish to involve time within the era.

What truly lead this Era, however, was the formation of The Order of the Sacred. A pact between some of the larger deities that existed during this period who formed together under an alliance to invest the energy and resources. They consist out of the current-day Greater Deities. They brought along the invention of Space and Time after a lot of energy, bringing forth an event known as The Formation. 
## The Procul Era
*The Formation to about -20.000*

The Formation spawned a turbulent period. Suddenly, deities had a vision with what they were able to produce. Matter started clumping together forming the atoms and materials the planes are made of today. Combined with divine borders, known as Skirts of End, these parts of matter and energy was able to be contained within a location known as a Plane. While these planes were forming, the ‘construction site’ started forming around them, now known as the Astral Plane, consisting out of a vast void now filled with remnants of dead gods, and forgotten realms, inaccessible to anyone but the most powerful. The internal structure was kept up using portals, either stationary, or to be summoned. This formed the 16 Outer Planes we know today, and together they formed the mystic crafts of Arcana and Magic which surrounds everything and everyone.

It’s around this period where some Deities started to distrust those not in accordance with what they themselves stood for, and where diverging paths began to take shape. To not lose focus of their goals and ideals, however, many of the Lesser Deities were created to keep track of their task for them, and maybe even take rule over a newly developed ideal that wasn’t thought about before. 

Due to the development of the Astral Plane, which started to contain more and more remnants of the other planes due to the natural development Planes within the Astral Plane, started creating a central inner core, called the Inner Planes. Initially just a single mass of loose elements, all eventually started combining around the center, and dividing into their own planes; The Elemental Planes. It was during this partition that a single massive Plane started to form from the elemental planes, attracting much of the essence from all existing planes for its creation. It is not known what caused this, but it is speculated that the sole existence of the elements and all possible thoughts and emotions, gathered from the 16 outer planes, caused for a plane with all to appear, which brought in new developments for all forms of society. The Material Plane was born.

The deities of the Outer Planes converged on this new established plane, and found it a massive open canvas for creation, housing many of the artifacts that were already present in their own planes, but combined. On it, several races and creatures were already present, and a single large land formation, known as the Procul-rock housed everything on dry land. Below the waters, the elemental plane of water reigned supreme, next to the many fish that also inhabited the waters of their respective element. The air was buzzing with creatures flying all over the place, though many of the air-based races still relied on dry land from the elemental plane of earth for perching. Beneath it all, housed a core made from pure energy, transferred from the plane of fire, bringing many jewels with it. The fundamentals were now in place, and life as we know it was formed. Though civilization was only just starting.
## The Era of Establishment
*About -19.999 to -1*

Not long after, the races of the planet started clustering together, and conversing with each other. They discovered in vast detail about how the Greater Deities caused the creation of everything there is, and communed with them to further the goals of both themselves, and the gods above. People groups started raising settlements, exploring the vast wilds, and started to experiment with arcana and magical abilities. The Ancestral Races got there first, establishing tribes in many parts of the Procul-rock. Races like the Elves, Dwarves, Tritons, Orcs, Goblins, and Gnomes roamed the land long before any other did, though it is not limited to these races alone. The Dragonborn for instance joined them shortly after, through an agreement made by both Eknovaris and Gestain.

The first human to land on the plane, coming from an unknown origin, but speculated to be from Enezor’s wish to have a single race, dedicated to all Deities, ideologies, and possibilities in life, landed shortly after the Era started in an event called The Everlanding. 

The event was a global phenomenon. Though Kaephlaer was the first, he was only used to show the many deities what this race could entail, and once everyone was in accordance with each other, they were integrated within the structure of the Prime plane. Humans started sprouting like rabbits, though some races saw them more as maggots drawn to a rotting corpse. They were hellbent on creating places of civilization, and elevated trade from a local convenience to a global commerce. They weren’t disliked by any race in particular, though their tendency to act quick, reproduce fast, and evolve systematically wasn’t in good favor of anyone, not even themselves. Still, they were here to stay.

When tribes and small settlements started coming together, small cities were formed, after which some sprawled out into the first citadels, all with their own distinct rulers. Politics became an important part of society, and religion wasn’t just used for guidance, but also for assistance. Though large-scale conflict wasn’t a common sight, some of the races were convinced that the others had no right to live on the same continent as themselves. A solution to this matter was the partitioning of the Procul-Rock. The first partitioning, an event called The Departure of the Ancients, saw a massive chunk of the Western side of the Procul-Rock break off and float away into the distant seas, carrying on it most of the Ancestral Races. Of course, they couldn’t even agree what parts of the land belonged to who, and, especially with the inherent aggression of some of the races like Dwarven, Orcs, and to an extent Elves, caused many a conflict. These conflicts also brewed on the original Procul-Rock, however, where the rest of the governing bodies now saw a massive chunk of possible territory drift off before their own eyes. And so, races even started fought with their own kind, especially the ever-ambitious humans.

The Deities, for a long time, served more as judges and commanders to those that worshipped them directly. Many of the living souls, however, didn’t strictly abide by the idea that they had one god they should worship, and acknowledged the existence and importance of every single one of them. The Order of the Sacred was revered as a whole, though many of its members had their own plans from the beginning, and wanted to revolutionize the way things were run on the Prime planar entity. 
## The Era of Intervention
*0 to 3412*

The breaking of the Order of the Sacred (now celebrated yearly on the 1st of Kaephlaer as an event called “Waning Day”) was an event that every deity felt, and one that caused an event known as The Turbulence. The Turbulence was a large divine strike across the Material plane that caused rifts to open, especially to the Negative Planes. These were ruled the Greater Deities that wished to tap directly into their source of faith, namely the living souls of the Material plane, which they had discovered was a major source of divine power for Greater Deities, and one that most could agree on should not be exploited. The Chaos Emperors (or The Sahl Mologh), consisting out of most deities hailing from the Negative planes, introduced a more direct approach to assuming control over the other Deities, with the end goal to destroy all the is not in accordance with their own ideals. 

To counter this, many of the other Deities started clustering together in what was called The Pact of the Ephocel, (or The Pact of the EverDivines). The pact was instated to confront the opposing forces head on, and to counter the incoming damage the Chaos Emperors wished to instill upon the world. Avatars of the deities were found scouring the lands in hopes of finding these infractions, and many Lesser Deities were unleashed by both sides in order to track each other down, and destroy one another.

Of course, destroying a god wasn’t easy. It usually requires an extremely long period of time to pass with nobody subjecting to an idea or emotion, which is near impossible if you can’t control the population, which caused many of the deities to instill their own Rule of Law, to the disgust of many of their own members. The EverDivines didn’t agree with how the mortal souls on the Material Plane had to be involved, and the Chaos Emperors couldn’t agree on either how to destroy them, or how to enslave them. Many grew distrustful of the Greater Deities, which caused even more conflict between states.

Late into this period, on what is now known as Othter the 23rd of Yv’Akio, 2270, the fighting forces of all races decided to stop fighting. It was a sudden realization, spanning a period of 24 Hours, instigated by the Dwarves of Stoneguarden and Orcs of Port Lazoa (then known as Stonewarden and Arwa respectively) whom grew tired of their endless, pointless fighting, and both sides gathered at The Evercenter months later to draw the first peace settlement of this period out of many, known collectively as Intervention Agreements. In it, all parties agreed to focus on rebuilding what was destroyed, and nourishing what was left, to focus on themselves rather than to blindly abide their Divine overlords. This caused a massive breach in the plans of all divine parties, whom all felt the blow, though they still continued for more than a millennium. The period that followed the Intervention Agreements is called The Flourishing of Flames, and it has a 3-day long holiday dedicated to on the days leading up to the Spring Gap, where spring turns into summer.

The fighting still caused the destruction of many villages, landmasses, cities, and even continents. The tearing and breaking of more and more of the Procul-Rock, caused by the excretion of divine force constantly bombarding the plane, created new oceans, island, peninsula’s, lakes, and biomes. The remnants of the Procul Rock were distributed among powerful nobleman, though most of the land was scorched from the massive battles. To give an example of the extent of damage the gods were dealing upon the lands; The fighting caused the central landmass of the Procul-Remnants to dip below the surface of the water due to all the craters, and became a location now called Juniper’s Blue. Some places of conflict still remain, such as the Courtyard of Deities, and the Dreaded Fields, both in modern-day Greyskil.

More so than ever was the need for hero’s apparent. The Deities knew they were able to elevate and grant mortal souls with power beyond their own recognition, and the mightiest of warriors, tacticians, and mages were quickly eligible for this title. The first of the heroes, Oart, a dwarven tactician, descendant to the emperor that caused the initial Intervention Agreements, was granted the status of Hero by Olvex, and quickly gathered with his peer from the south, Yv Ak’io, who found himself being granted the title by Aria in rapid succession. The two went from location to location, sometimes leading an army, and other times going at it alone, facing the many dangers of the gods from both sides. Many chose to rally behind them, elevating their powers, and they eventually met their final ally in the form of a human King from the Northeast, whom proved himself worthy by standing beside them for 3 straight years of fighting extremely powerful divine beings. It was this dedication that gave the two heroes the task of elevating their new companion, by the name of King Udolfen Tioben IV, to the same status as their own; a Hero. With his addition, the War of Souls had truly begun.

The three of them waged in battles against the Titans, Demigods, and Lesser Deities summoned mainly by the Chaos Emperors, and even traveled deep into the territory of modern-day Ordenis to hunt down what remained of them. It was here where the three, now known as Primis, requested the Greater Deities that all those that wished the Chaos Emperors to be defeated bestow their blessing upon them, or relegate their divine powers to those that do wish to good to this universe. The Ephocel chose the former, as did some of the Sahl Molagh, seeing the battle not turning in their favor. Primis found themselves in a unique position, being mortal souls able to touch the avatars of Greater Deities, but did not hesitate to damage them all enough as to banish them behind a sealed gate, constructed through Oart’s wisdom. One by one, the divine structure of the opposing deities began to fail, and according to legend, Ruin’s maniacal laughter, combined with screams, and rattling of chains, were the last sounds ever heard in the Astral Plane before the Sealant Gates of the Everdivines was shut.

Some still ask how the Era of Intervention got its name, and by most accounts it’s very simple, but many do not know about the definitive outcome of the battles. The impact three mortal souls from a very broad plane of existence was able to enforce upon the Greater Deities was deemed as a high enough threat to all of the Deities, as to now keep to their own a little more. They would not stop to press their own ideology into the world, however, and many a war is still fought by opposing sides. The battles have however unified the people of Califhen for at least a prolonged period of time, and many see this as the rise of modern-day life, where race and faith aren’t a definitive inclusion within a certain civilization, but opinions and actions are. The accomplishments of Primis hasn’t gone unnoticed either, and they were returned to the status of mortal by the remaining Greater Deities to live the remainder of their lives as they wanted to. The final battle, the closing of the Sealant Gates of the Everdivines (or the Everdivine Gate), and the great silence that followed is still celebrated yearly.
## The Expansionist Era
*3413 to 8192*

With the Everdivine Gate now shut, the direct influence of the gods was limited to an extent. No more were artifacts of power being distributed. No more were the lands constantly being moved around. The living souls were now left to their own devices. Some, happy. Others, not so much. Especially the ones praising those now sealed away, like the Yuan-Ti that praise Tareok were not happy that their once stable communications were now severed. Direct interactions were limited, and reserved to only the most powerful of followers. This did mean that those once close to the gods, like Clerics and Priests, were now looked at by those underneath them for guidance. And while some took to this task with care, and thought about all their actions, others were willing to bow their heads to powerful nobles willing to pay enough coin, and persuade his word to coincide with their now-ruler. The Expansionist Era had begun.

Tribes and clans existed for millenniums before this period, and large civilizations like those found in Moundaria, Xaterai, and Orphelica, housing large groups of dwarves, humans, and elves were not unheard of. If were the Kachmerians, however, hailing from the open wound of the War of Souls that saw themselves as the new opportunists. They realized that the creation of the Human race had always meant that they were made to become the superior ones, and to their right, they proved it several times over the past Era’s. Not only had they become the largest race on the planet, it was now also established that the large Kachmerian lands had found a ruling party that would establish law and structure. Located in the city of Cazernikum, the massive amounts of humans looking for labor, trade, and coin, flocked to the citadel, and racial diversity became an issue due to the impartiality coming from the political sphere leading the lands. The Minotaur’s coming from Xaterai relegated back to the mountains after the boycotting of the naval construction yard in Camp Boeing, and the many elves and halflings retreated to the Ladies’ Land and Juniper’s Blue, to establish a more accepting environment. 

The empire established was known as the Kachmerian Republic, and was the first one that introduced a high amount of order and structure, and immediately decided it should probably get more land to expand outwards. The Republic was dead set on obtaining as many resources as possible before any other emerging states were able to claim them. This caused many of the surrounding area to proclaim their own personal sovereignty. Before this period, most villages, cities, and societies were loosely connected groups that simply traded and traveled with each other.

As a result of the emerging states, many noblemen and noblewomen started tightening their grip on whatever places they could get their influence on, especially the ones led by humans, though the elves were also quick to establish their own borders. The Western Civilizations mostly still maintained open borders, especially since most of the population still consisted out of the Ancestral Races, whom didn’t feel like confining to the norms of the Eastern Civilizations. A split was first cast between the Kachmerians and the other races when they declared the border of their empire to be up against Juniper’s Blue, and immediately sent a military convoy to the border to establish their own superiority. Much to the surprise of the small army sent there, the inhabitants of the southern ranges, known as the Jades, didn’t bother sending troops of their own. This was both to send a message to the Kachmerians that they were souls of peace, and as an effort to maintain the softer border that had been the staple of Califhenic civilization. 

The Kachmerians didn’t take kindly to the gesture, who sent reinforcements in an effort to see if the Jades were testing them or not. When the response coming from the Jades was lacking, the Kachmerian Emperor, known as Emperor Viktor Hyesaren I, became so offended that he ordered the immediate invasion of the Jadean territory. Declaration of the Tyrants became the day where the Jades were invaded and defeated. Over the coming years, they were stripped of any remnants of personal accumulated culture, and the population became scattered. 

This trend was replicated by neighboring regions, and after some extensive scuffles and reshuffling of land partitions, the new empires of Drav, Sutoden, Modesta, and Ordenis all emerged from the expansion led by the Kachmer Republic. Internal struggles emerged, however, and some of the states didn’t accept their new leaders immediately. After some time, each and everyone took to them eventually, however, and most of the towns and cities eventually reached settlements with their leaders. The newly invented forms of government started to take place in either monarchies, democracies, elected parliaments, and sometimes even brutish tribalism. 

An era like this could not go by without the need for interference, however, and the previously sealed Everdivine gates started showing wear, causing many artifacts, creatures, and other forms of evil to seep through again, but many of the old Order of the Ephocel also took advantage of this opportunity, planting seeds to more stably allow the inhabiting souls to make use of the divine power. 5646 also marks the year that Corellon allowed a more widespread use of magic, seeing it fade after the focus of divine power faded. He instilled an event known as Flods Arcanum, where parts of the land became so intoxicated with arcane magical essence, that the whole material plane was forever imbued with it, compared to how arcane energy was previously drawn from the Astral Plane. 

As a result of the expansion of the Kachmerian Republic, the trade was not able to keep up with the demands of its populace. As a result, nobility started to question the stability of the monarchist state, and many resulted to their own personal guard for protection of their cities and towns. Lady Natalia “Fury” Mitrus of Kinoa found her way onto the main continent due to her exile from her place of birth. Flown into a maddening rage, Lady Mitrus grew famous as The Red Styx across the crumbling continent of the Kachmerian Republic. Senseless murder became her blessing by which she gained the status of Hero, from the then re-emerging Sahl Molagh member Bane. When she herself requested to be destroyed by her opponents due to the threat she was causing, a Hero of Kord saw her potential, and wanted to use her against the oppressive, destructive leaders of Kachmeria, his wish was granted, and he gave up his own status to bestow them upon her; a move that effectively finished off the Kachmerian Republic when she waltzed to the Brazen steps of Cazernikum, and let herself into the throne room. Some say the casualties were into the dozens, while other claim there to be thousands. Cazernikum was left blood-soaked, and the Republic was no longer.

Not that there was a lack of potential government figures not ready to ascend to the throne. With a new noble bloodline in power, the state was retitled New Kachmer, though this one eventually also fell to corruption and blasphemy related to religion. This iteration happened all over the planet, and many kingdoms rotated their leadership often. The island state of Kinoa especially is known to be ruled by the toughest warrior, that is constantly challenged by a long list of contenders, still to this day. One

Some described this era as ‘mostly dull’, but those involved in the many wars, conflicts, and scuffles know that it wasn’t as graceful as it may seem. Lives lost were not limited, but some locations experienced periods of grace, like the emerging land of Fey, Giants, and Elves (mostly wood). The Drow also found home here, and established Zila. Like Zila, new countries like Ty’heris, Hyda, and Nizakun also started to take shape. Most often, this was because of less sustainability under higher rule, but at other times, it was due to a difference in culture, like it was with Zila and Ordenis.

Kentar and Antar made a duo of ferocious warriors of their time. Kentar made use of the Remnant Artifact crafter by worshippers of Gruumsch to swiftly deal with any combatants they would encounter, and Antar was infused with essence left by Liliën, turning her a Hero of the Green Throne early in her life. Having met Kentar after he was brought to her after nearly meeting his end, Antar found the power within him enough to suggest him as a Hero to whomever wanted him, who turned out to be Chandria. The Deities they praised agreed that this may be a solution to dealing with the escaping Sahl Mologh, and surely enough, with assistance from Cazernikum’s betrayer leader of the mage council, Wellederus, they managed to establish the ancient artifacts used by Primis in the first instance The Turbulence, and assembled all the rites crafted by Oart in record time, and just in time for their battle.

Nothing of record is left of how long the battle went on for, and how it escalated, but Wellederus claims Kentar and Antar were elevated to a stable will-controlled platform near the gates. Kentar laid out the strikes, with each of them pushing the escaping deities’ avatar back ever so slighty, and as he inched forwards, Antar maintained a continuous focus of unleashing Liliën’s might through her own mortal self as a vessel. She claims she was never possessed by her.  
Once the avatars were behind the gates, they resorted to destroying the yet irreplaceable seals made to keep every one of them in place. They only succeeded in breaking the seal of Ruin, of which remnants are scattered throughout the multiverse. Kentar, mostly driven by rage, conviction, and his racial drive to not stop fighting until a decisive victory was reached, pushed into the Astral Sea where the avatars were piling up one by one to find a way the could pass through, but Kentar instructed Antar to close the gate behind him. Antar didn’t comply. The giant then commanded Liliën to do so for her, which seemed to work. With the gate closed behind him, Antar claims she saw Kentar smash the Remnant Artifact into the slot of the broken seal, which fused shut and formed a new seal, seemingly shutting the gates once more. 

Antar lost her connection with Liliën, and was derived of the power that kept her standing within the Sea of Divine Power. Wellederus communed with her patron to establish her situation, and used everything in his arsenal to have her return to the Material Plane, against orders of his emperor. Antar was seen leaving the city perimeters, with Wellederus seemingly directing the personal guard away from her while she escaped, sacrificing himself in the meantime. Antar’s return and escape was seen as a reaffirmation that mortal beings shaped this plane every day.
## The Continental Era
*8193 to Current Day (9982)*

With the gates sealed once more, and the word of the Kachmerian betrayal to the Material Plane now spreading fast, all manner of souls became suspicious of each other, but more importantly, the ever-ambitious Kachmerians, who were gaining more power and more support by the day, and it was clear no single continent would be able to take on the vast amount of power they now held. The new established arcane powers that all nations possessed also meant a more dangerous time to be both a wielder and a foe of the magical arts. An old continent in the Southwest saw themselves as the providers of change to the way people of all manners looked at each other, and had to establish serious rules to keep everyone in check, especially with the emerging Kachmerian Empire. The establishing of the C.A.S.C.O, the Coastal Agreement of States and Cities in Ordenis (or just ‘Casco’), marked a modern era, and one that promised fairness to all people groups. Initially starting out with just Ordenis’ own city states, many cities joined formally under a single banner, known now as Continents.

The Democratic Union of Modesta had seen the battle-worn Dravians Republicans as strong allies ever since Cazernikum put strain on it’s neighbouring lands, and Drav defended the entrance to Modesta for so long, that Modestians even covered a lot of the supplies and costs that the defenses would cost. They merged 9 weeks after the creation of Casco, and suggested the Ordenians set up a neutral ground for debate and discussion. This was seen as a great idea by many surrounding states, and the Ordanians swiftly went to work, with the newly formed continent of Drav-Modesta cooperatively working with them. The Califhenic Council quickly became very popular when trade agreements between Drav-Modesta and Ordenis caused a spike in resources and income for both continents. Diversity and communication also increased. Xaterai and the still emerging Aegren also joined, much to the same effect. Over a 4-year long period, the council became more formalized, and eventually included every single continental entity there is on Califhen. That also included Far Kachmer, who saw the council as a great way to show their dominance and gather allies.

It didn’t take long before the first conflicts were settled, but also started thanks to the council. Disagreements between states started arising, and the uprising in the South of Greyskil led to a heated debate on whether the council should include the unrecognized continent or not. Many of these cases persist, and continue to this day.

The Deities, in the meantime, came clean to their true purpose. Some, but not all, recognized that the mortal souls had the world in the palm of their own hands, but they would still attempt a siege every now and then. New creatures still leap out of the many portals and other means of transportation from the 16 Outer Planes. Sometimes, a creature just happens to evolve in a way that introduces a new danger to the world. Akat was a prominent gnome corrupted by cursed interactions from devilish fiends, who saw an influential young boy wander into their lair. He grew to become a shadow of his former self, but possessing power equaling that of a Demigod. He was granted the status of Hero by Eknovaris, no wonder, in an attempt to have him become powerful enough to shift the entire Material Plane into a destructive course that could destroy everything there is, was, and ever will be. It took him years to prepare a ritual, but after numerous failures, a near-successful attempt was stopped in time by a cooperative effort from the Kachmerians, and the guerilla fighter from the Jungles of Mevit.

In a display of purpose to the council, many of these actions are still ongoing today, and the danger of somebody summoning the Greater Deities, elevating one of the many Lesser Deities, finding and misusing an ancient artifact just to name a few, has not died down. Not only is corruption in politics a danger, but corruption within the Arcane and Divine has also sprung massive problems within the order of society. Thus, there will always be a need for trained individuals, willing to sacrifice it all for the greater good – they may even possibly get away with it. This world is not one made to be traversed by fools, for the world has no time for them, but some still try to this day. And now that we draw close to the end of the tenth millennia since the first Waning Day, we only discover each and every day, that history is full of stories to be written…