---
publish: true
---

## Greater Deities

The first among time and space were sparks coagulating into ideas, which in turn formed thoughts. To further these thoughts, time was invented, and to give these thoughts a form of expression, space was crafted. It was all these instances combined that sparked the creation of all possible forms of thought to span across the entire domain of capable thinking, and gave way to the Greater Deities. Together, they form the Califhenic Pantheon, known as the RisenDawn Pantheon.

These are the deities that know all and ruled all, at least before the Rulers era came around. They possess incomprehensible amounts of power, and influence our lives daily. Whether you approve of their involvement or not, they are those that created everything there is, was, and will ever be.
## Lesser Deities

While most deities prefer to either work alone or cooperate, instead of distributing power, it can be in their advantage to create more vulnerable, but also more direct ‘offspring’ of themselves. These Lesser deities have exceptional power compared to other beings, but are not even close to the heights of their creators. The reason they exist, however, is to monitor and maintain smaller parts of the universe. This can in turn give their creator more flexibility as to what to do with his powers, but does create a powerful entity that can forcibly change the balance of the world to their own liking.
## Sub-Pantheons

Sub-Pantheons act like extensions of the already existing RisenDawn Pantheon, acting like the Greater Deities included, but only influential amongst those that their pantheon surrounds, like the Giants form the Ordning. Most of these Sub-Pantheons are specific to a race, and hence aren’t always accepted in general culture around Califhen, though as with anything, there are exceptions.

|   |   |   |
|---|---|---|
|Divine Order|Description|Members|
|Order of the Immortals|Mortality already is an unknown concept in the words of greater deities. The immortality spoken of here, however, is one that points towards power. Those within this order have been appointed with the task of keeping full order within the planes, whether they be their own or from another deity. They can do as they please, without questioning or involvement from other gods, if they keep to their task. They are the Maintainers of everything that is, was, and ever will be.|[[Korhenevar]]<br>[[Olvex]]<br>[[Aria]]<br>[[Teokharis]]|
|Order of the Revered|A group of well understood gods that visibly involve themselves into the world, and hope that one day they world will revolve around them more than anything. They aren’t necessarily ‘evil’, but their involvement is spontaneous, not well-thought out, and overall quite selfish.|[[Beas]]<br>[[Udenor]]<br>[[Olmari]]<br>[[Izo]]|
|Order of the Protectors|These are the ‘good guys’, according to most common folk. They seek out unjust causes and eliminate them swiftly, or send in their own forces to do so. Some may use brutal tactics and force to convince the opposing party, while others use more sly and easy-to-miss tactics. What matters most though, is to keep beings safe from the misfortune caused by those that wish to harm them.  <br>Note: while many of the Order of the Immortals also associate themselves with this group, their task doesn’t allow them to.|[[Gestain]]<br>[[Liliën]]<br>[[Midian]]<br>[[Saaber]]<br>[[Enezor]]|
|Order of the Banished|Their power exists, still, but is locked away for the time being. Their involvement within the world caused many other deities to step forth and try to take away their power, each with their own successes and losses. In the end, Heroes of Califhenic origin succeeded in convincing the Greater Deities to stay back and let the mortals do the job they could not – banish those that opposed their cause. This order contains all those deities that failed to oppose the Demigods instilled by the Protectors.|[[Ruin]]<br>[[Tareok]]<br>[[Hadar]]<br>[[Deshuun]]<br>[[Eknovaris]]|
|Order of the Keepers|There are deities that, besides having their own agenda, find their task excruciatingly vital to the existence of multiple or all planes. These gods see it as their task to keep “circle of life” the way it should be, and are obsessed with balance. Despite that, order has been seen to involve themselves more than they should, like the Order of the Banished did before them.|[[Chandria]]<br>[[Aliana]]<br>[[Hevenar]]<br>[[Syfos]]|
|Order of the Unproven|Simply put, these Deities have not been in the pantheon since the absolute beginning, and only have been take in once they were deemed necessary for the existence of humankind, or in some rare cases to protect those that serve the Greater Deities in a level they themselves could not.|[[Meneloth]]<br>[[Kentar]]<br>[[Ysbor]]|

The membership of an order does not mean that a lesser deity created by a greater deity belongs to an order as well. They can freely associate themselves with whichever one they please, but they cannot be a member due to the missing divine connection.
## Hero’s

The gods may be limited with their physical powers, but they have many ways to bestow their will upon the material world besides Demigods and Titans. The blessing of those that revere them is one way, by enhancing the abilities of a follower for a short period of time. Assisting those that speak their words in more than a single way is also quite common, with some gods even communicating with their followers directly. 

One way to establish more direct power of the world is by establishing Hero’s. A Hero is someone who has meant so much to a deity that it is taken under the direct control of this deity’s life. This would mean that a material being would seize to exist, but their souls would inhabit a new material form. Their previous body is used as a vessel. It may seem like nothing is changed, but the new form doesn’t have to eat or sleep anymore. It also is more resistant to some forms of damage, like nonmagical weapons, and it’s ageing has slowed down by half. As the frosting on the cake, the being is now also immortalized, and will regenerate once it does die of any cause other than old age. This last ability is dependent on if the deity is still willing to hear to the praises of their Hero, since they can only have one at a time. There have been exceptions to this, however.

The creating of a Hero is done through a ritual done at the right moment. A deity must be accepting of a soul, and several others must be in accordance with the ascension of a soul to Heroism. These others, known as “Pillars”, must have some of the highest-ranking inhabitants of the material plane amongst them. They can be kings, queens, arch mages, or generals, but most of the time, they consist out of the Hero’s closest companions. The Pillars are used as a funnel, and must be able to withstand large amounts of divine energy in order to connect a soul to a deity. Even then, the soul itself must be strong enough to grasp onto the link and remain as one whole. If the process fails, the creature will most likely starve due to the soul being ripped apart. Heroes can’t be a hero to multiple deities.

The deities eligible for attaining Heroes mostly consist out of Greater Deities, but several Lesser deities have been known to attempt to replicate the creation. This process hasn’t been the most trustworthy, however, and has been known as risky. That doesn’t mean it isn’t an uncommon practice, however, and the path is substantially easier to walk, since a Lesser Deity can more easily interact with a Hero-to-be. Some Lesser Deities have been known to suck the life force out a of creature to either extinguish whatever threat the subject may have been, or to improve their own abilities for a short period of time. 

The responsibility and tasks of a Hero vary widely. Some stay true to their course and continue what they have been doing since they first started breathing. Others see it as a gateway to become a Demigod, and ascend to Godhood. Lastly, Hero’s aren’t forced to act on the behalf of their patrons, unlike Lesser deities who are still restricted to abide to their creator.